.\" Manpage for sshub.
.\" Contributions and corrections welcome at https://github.com/Petyok/SSHub
.TH SSHUB 1 "2026-07-18" "sshub 0.9.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sshub \- keyboard-driven TUI SSH host launcher with a headless CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sshub
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B sshub
.I COMMAND
.RI [ ARGS ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sshub
is a terminal UI for managing and connecting to SSH hosts. It merges the
read-only
.I ~/.ssh/config
with a launcher-managed SQLite database and provides nested groups, fuzzy
search, tags, embedded PTY sessions, SFTP transfers, SSH tunnels, identity
management, and an audit log.
.PP
Run with no command to launch the TUI. Any recognized
.I COMMAND
runs headless (no TUI) and is scriptable: output honors
.B \-\-format
.RB ( plain
or
.BR json )
where applicable, and the exit status follows the convention in
.BR "EXIT STATUS" .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help. After a command
.RB ( "sshub " "\fICOMMAND\fR \fB\-\-help\fR" )
it prints help for that command.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Exit immediately without launching the TUI (smoke tests / CI).
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Host (read)
.TP
.B sshub host list \fR[\fB\-\-tag\fR \fITAG\fR]... [\fB\-\-group\fR \fINAME\fR] [\fB\-\-sort\fR \fIMODE\fR] [\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
List hosts.
.B \-\-tag
is repeatable and ANDs; \fB\-\-group\fR filters by exact membership (not the
subtree). \fIMODE\fR is one of
.BR label ", " last\-connected ", " favorite ", " group ", " manual .
.TP
.B sshub host show \fINAME\fR [\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
Show the full fact sheet for a host.
.TP
.B sshub host connect \fINAME\fR \fR[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
Connect over SSH (or mosh, per the host transport). Session logging and audit
apply as configured. The child exit code is propagated.
.TP
.B sshub host resolve \fINAME\fR [\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
Print the resolved connection details and the exact
.I argv
that would run, plus whether a stored secret exists (never the secret itself).
.TP
.B sshub host search \fIQUERY\fR [\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
Fuzzy-search hosts, best match first.
.SS Host (write)
.TP
.B sshub host add \fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR \fB\-\-address\fR \fIADDR\fR [flags]
Create a launcher host. Flags include
.BR \-\-port ", " \-\-username ", " \-\-label ", " \-\-identity ", " \-\-group ", "
.BR \-\-tag ", " \-\-notes ", " \-\-proxy\-jump ", " \-\-remote\-command ", "
.BR \-\-forward\-agent ", " \-\-os\-icon ", " \-\-transport ", " \-\-session\-log ", "
.BR \-\-favorite ", " \-\-password\-stdin .
.TP
.B sshub host edit \fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR [\fB\-\-set\-*\fR|\fB\-\-clear\-*\fR ...]
Edit a host. Each field has a
.BI \-\-set\- FIELD
and, where nullable, a
.BI \-\-clear\- FIELD
form (e.g.
.BR \-\-set\-username ", " \-\-clear\-username ", " \-\-set\-os\-icon ,
.BR \-\-set\-tags ", " \-\-set\-group ", " \-\-set\-identity ", " \-\-set\-transport ).
.TP
.B sshub host rename \fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR \fB\-\-new\-name\fR \fINEW\fR [\fB\-\-strict\fR]
Rename a launcher host.
.B \-\-strict
fails instead of de-duplicating a clashing name.
.TP
.B sshub host delete \fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR \fB\-\-yes\fR
Delete a launcher host. Requires
.BR \-\-yes .
.TP
.B sshub host duplicate \fINAME\fR
Duplicate a host (legacy ssh_config hosts are copied into the launcher).
.SS Aliases
.TP
.B sshub connect \fINAME\fR
Alias for
.BR "host connect" .
.TP
.B sshub list \fR...
Alias for
.BR "host list" .
.TP
.B sshub groups \fR...
Alias for
.BR "group list" " (forwards flags, e.g. " \-\-all ).
.SS Groups
.TP
.B sshub group list \fR[\fB\-\-all\fR] [\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
.TQ
.B sshub group show \fINAME\fR [\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
.TQ
.B sshub group add \fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR \fR[\fB\-\-parent\fR \fIG\fR] [\fB\-\-default\-identity\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-sort\-order\fR \fIN\fR]
.TQ
.B sshub group edit \fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR \fR[\fB\-\-set\-name\fR|\fB\-\-set\-parent\fR|\fB\-\-clear\-parent\fR|\fB\-\-set\-default\-identity\fR|\fB\-\-clear\-default\-identity\fR|\fB\-\-set\-sort\-order\fR ...]
.TQ
.B sshub group delete \fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR \fB\-\-yes\fR
Manage host groups.
.SS Identities
.TP
.B sshub identity list\fR|\fBshow\fR|\fBadd\fR|\fBedit\fR|\fBdelete\fR|\fBagent\-remove \fR...
Manage SSH identities. Passwords are read from stdin with
.BR \-\-password\-stdin .
.B agent\-remove \-\-name \fINAME\fR
runs
.B ssh\-add \-d
for the identity's key.
.SS Tunnels
.TP
.B sshub tunnel list\fR|\fBshow \fR[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
.TQ
.B sshub tunnel create \fB\-\-host\fR \fINAME\fR \fB\-\-type\fR \fIT\fR \fB\-\-local\-port\fR \fIP\fR \fR[\fB\-\-remote\-host\fR \fIH\fR] [\fB\-\-remote\-port\fR \fIP\fR] [\fB\-\-label\fR \fIL\fR] [\fB\-\-keep\-alive\fR]
.TQ
.B sshub tunnel start \fIID\fR \fR[\fB\-\-foreground\fR]
.TQ
.B sshub tunnel stop \fIID\fR
.TQ
.B sshub tunnel delete \fIID\fR \fB\-\-yes\fR
Manage SSH tunnels.
.I T
is
.BR local ", " remote ", or " dynamic .
By default
.B start
detaches and records a PID file under the data directory;
.B \-\-foreground
runs in-process with the reconnect loop.
.IP
Note: CLI-detached tunnels (PID file) and the TUI's in-process tunnel manager
are mutually invisible.
.SS SFTP (one-shot)
.TP
.B sshub sftp ls \fIHOST\fR \fR[\fIPATH\fR] [\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
.TQ
.B sshub sftp get \fIHOST\fR \fIREMOTE\fR \fR[\fILOCAL\fR] [\fB\-\-recursive\fR]
.TQ
.B sshub sftp put \fIHOST\fR \fILOCAL\fR \fR[\fIREMOTE\fR] [\fB\-\-recursive\fR]
.TQ
.B sshub sftp rm \fIHOST\fR \fIREMOTE\fR \fR[\fB\-\-recursive\fR] \fB\-\-yes\fR
.TQ
.B sshub sftp mkdir\fR|\fBrename\fR|\fBchmod \fR...
One-shot SFTP over a direct host (ProxyJump is not supported).
.B chmod
takes an octal mode.
.B rm
is destructive and requires
.BR \-\-yes .
.SS Audit
.TP
.B sshub audit list \fR[\fB\-\-status\fR \fIS\fR] [\fB\-\-via\fR \fIV\fR] [\fB\-\-host\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-limit\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-days\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
.TQ
.B sshub audit stats \fR[\fB\-\-days\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-via\fR \fIV\fR] [\fB\-\-include\-retry\fR] [\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
Inspect the connection audit log.
.I S
is
.BR all ", " ok ", " fail ", or " retry ;
.I V
is
.BR all ", " connect ", " tunnel ", or " agent .
.SS Inventory and config
.TP
.B sshub tags \fR[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIF\fR]
List every tag in the inventory.
.TP
.B sshub sync
Refresh the ssh_config-derived rows in the database.
.TP
.B sshub import
Import hosts from
.IR ~/.ssh/config .
.TP
.B sshub export \fR[\fB\-\-stdout\fR | \fB\-o\fR \fIPATH\fR]
Export launcher hosts to an ssh_config snippet.
.B \-\-stdout
and
.B \-o
are mutually exclusive.
.TP
.B sshub completions \fBbash\fR|\fBzsh\fR|\fBfish\fR \fR[\fB\-\-cache\fR \fIPATH\fR]
Print a shell completion script.
.B \-\-cache
writes/reads a host-name cache for faster dynamic completion.
.TP
.B sshub db purge \fR[\fB\-\-yes\-i\-am\-stupid\fR]
Delete the launcher database (hosts, groups, identities, tunnels, audit log).
Irreversible; requires
.BR \-\-yes\-i\-am\-stupid .
Leaves
.I ~/.ssh/config
untouched.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Operational failure (not found, a destructive command refused without
.BR \-\-yes ,
spawn error, non-zero ssh exit, hard import error).
.TP
.B 2
Usage error, bad flags, deleting a non-launcher host, or deleting an identity
still in use.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SSHUB_CONFIG_DIR
Override the config directory (fallback:
.BR SSH_LAUNCHER_CONFIG_DIR ).
.TP
.B SSHUB_DATA_DIR
Override the data directory (fallback:
.BR SSH_LAUNCHER_DATA_DIR ).
.TP
.B SSHUB_SSH_CONFIG
Override the SSH config path (fallback:
.BR SSH_LAUNCHER_SSH_CONFIG ).
.TP
.B SSHUB_DRY_RUN
Exit immediately (fallback:
.BR SSH_LAUNCHER_DRY_RUN ).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/sshub/launcher.db
The launcher SQLite database (managed hosts, groups, identities, tunnels, audit
log). Path honors
.BR SSHUB_DATA_DIR .
.TP
.I ~/.ssh/config
Read-only source of ssh_config hosts merged into the launcher.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh (1),
.BR ssh_config (5),
.BR sftp (1),
.BR ssh\-add (1)
.PP
Project home:
.UR https://github.com/Petyok/SSHub
.UE
.SH BUGS
Report issues at
.UR https://github.com/Petyok/SSHub/issues
.UE .
